Before we dive into the metadata stored by the JobRepository,
let's revisit a few key Spring Batch terms,
as well as introduce a few additional ones.
If you remember from earlier,
a job is a template for how batch processing will be performed.
A job has a name, defines its ability to restart, and defines one or more steps.
A job instance refers to the logical run of a job.
For example, if there was a daily run of a job for an entire month,
there would be 28 to 31 job instances based on the number of days in the month.
Job instances have state that affects the reusability of an instance.
A job execution represents a single attempt to run a job.
Execution may succeed or fail.
If you need to rerun a job because of a failure,
it simply means you have a new execution against the same job instance.
Job executions have a status, a start time,
an end time, an exit status, and an execution context.
A job instance can have one or more parameters.
Oftentimes these parameters help to identify which instance of a job was run,
such as the May 2nd instance of a monthly job.
A step encapsulates an independent, sequential phase of a batch job.
It can be as simple as reading a line from a file and as
complex as applying multiple business rules.
Step execution is similar to job execution.
It represents a single attempt to execute a step.
Step executions contain an execution context that allows for
the persistence of data across batch runs.
Like job execution, it also contains additional metadata including the status,
start time, end time, read count, write count,
rollback count, and exit status.
The reason I introduced some new concepts and revisited some
existing concepts is that there's a strong correlation to the
database tables used by the JobRepository.
When you run a Spring Batch job,
the JobRepository uses database tables to persist and retrieve
data about the various aspects of runtime.
The Batch_Job_Instance table stores each instance of
the job with a unique identifier, a version,
a job name,
and a serialization of the job parameters that
uniquely identify the job instance.
The Batch_Job_Execution table stores relevant information about the
execution of a job including a unique identifier,
create time, start time, end time, status,
and exit code.
The Batch_Job_Execution_Context table stores a serialized
version of the Job_Execution_Context object.
This can be used to retrieve the state after a failure for restart purposes.
The Batch_Job_Execution_Params table stores the key value pairs
for job parameter details and a job execution.
The Batch_Step_Execution table stores relevant information about the
execution of a step similar to the Batch_Job_Execution table.
Other information stored include a unique identifier of the step execution,
start time, end time, status, commit count,
read count, write count, and exit code.
The last table is the Batch_Step_Execution_Context.
Again, similar to the Batch_Job_Execution_Context,
this table stores a serialized version of the Step_Execution_Context.
It can be used to retrieve the state after a failure for restart purposes.
Now that you understand the database tables available
for Spring Batch's JobRepository, let's add the schema to the project.
I'll be following Demo 4 found in the DEMOS.
md file in the root project directory.
I'll be demonstrating the addition of the Spring Batch
JobRepository database schema for the required tables.
Note that I've expanded the folder src, main, resources, config, liquibase.
This directory contains the schema definitions used by
Liquibase to manage the database schema and data.
I'm going to start by opening up the file master.
xml.
The master.
xml file is the main changelog definition for the database schema.
Currently, I've included an initial blank schema file.
We're going to include a new file for the Spring Batch schema.
Let me drop that in now.
As this is just a reference to the Spring Batch schema,
I'll need to create the file next.
Note that it's important to add the creation of this table as the
second entry as Liquibased schema changes are additive.
Let's create that Spring Batch schema file now.
Make sure you've expanded the changelog folder under the liquibase folder,
and then right-click on it to add a new file.
Now simply add the file name that we used in the master changelog.
Note that the prefix for the file name is simply a
timestamp that ensures ordering.
I'm going to drop in the contents for the schema.
Once again, note that I'm using the DEMOS.
md file to get this content,
and I recommend that you use it as well as there's a large
chunk of data that will be dropped in.
Note that the schema is actually derived from one
found in the Spring Batch project.
Spring Batch provides you the schema for most types
of databases that are available.
Unfortunately, Spring Batch does not provide it in Liquibase format,
so I needed to create the file myself.
While Spring Batch will auto generate the database objects for you,
I recommend this approach as it puts you or your DBA in
control of the database creation process.
With the database in place,
let's try to run the project and make sure that the database is available.
I'm going to close the file.
And in my toolbar, I'm going to make sure that the main class,
which is PatientBatchLoaderApp is selected,
and I'm going to click to run it.
If we expand the console,
we see a line here noting that Liquibase was configured.
I don't see any errors,
so I'm pretty sure that everything was started up correctly.
But let's go ahead and see if we can access the H2 console.
Go ahead and open up a browser.
Once you have the browser open, navigate to the URL localhost:8080/console.
Entering the URL should bring up the console for the H2 database.
If it doesn't, you may want to check the error logs in case of a failure.
Make sure that you've selected or entered the items in the form as I have shown.
First, click to test the connection.
Now let's go ahead and click Connect.
Here we see that the schema was successfully added.
We have our new Batch_Job and Batch_Step tables inside the H2 database.
That completes verification of the configuration of the Spring Batch database schema.